Welcome back we are going to start playing
some music now so let's start off with the
notes that we just played. G,A,B,C,D,E,F,G.
And I want to talk about the left hand technique
just the basic technique. As you notice from
me playing I use the tip of my fingers, not
the pad of my fingers but the tip. It allows
me to arch the finger over and touch the string
and not touch any other string, it is very
important. So try that a few times, also as
I play E,F, and G notice that there is not
wasted motion. I'm not doing this I'm simply
only doing what is necessary it makes like
much easier. You notice that this finger doesn't
move unless it absolutely needs to but when
I play the G right here there is no need to
move this finger so I don't. Also behind the
guitar my thumb is on the back of the neck,
I'm not grabbing the neck but it is on the
back of the neck and there is pressure between
the thumb and the finger. I'm pitching the
neck of the guitar to create the sound. Alright.
So the first three strings again G,A,B,C,D,E,F,G
just go ahead and do the last three strings
really quick. The first the first big string
is just like that little string it is E,F,G,
the next string the section is A,B,C and the
last string that we have not covered is D,E,F.
So if I just start with this note right here
and go all through the alphabet it will look
and seem really simple hopefully that is E,F,G,A,B,C,D,E,F,G,A,B,C,D,E,F,G
okay. It is going to take some time to memorize
where the notes are that is for you to do
in your spare time while you are watching
tv or whatever. Okay but hopefully you did
notice that between B and C and E and F, I
only move one fret. If you remember that it
will make life much easier it is very important.
B to C, E to F is one fret, everything else
is to okay. Also we are going to play some
simple chords and I will take to you about
what a chord is in more details a little bit
later but basically it is a bunch of notes
together. This is a G chord a simple version
and this is a simple version of a C chord,
this is a G7 chord. Let's do those three first
so you got G,G7 and a C chord which I'm sure
you have heard somewhere before.